SWEN9004 Assignment 1 Reflection Report
	By Yuhao Liu Student ID 1286084
Through This project, I learned to use skills of multithreading in java, with Thread, synchronized, wait(), and notifyAll() etc to coordinate with concurrency. 
I used the monitor pattern, where the station and elevator act as shared resources, to solve their similarity, I applied the Java interface. With these two monitors, I used Miner, and Engine to interact with the Station particularly, when there is a block in cart transport, the Engine will sleep for a little while and try again. A producer and consumer is provided in the scaffold to create and consume carts. To simulate this and combine my knowledge from class, I implement a buffer like approach, this can slightly reduce the block of the producer. The buffer only provides one parking slot though. The elevator would react to ¡°button press¡± or after a certain amount of time.

At the beginning of debugging, the program seems to execute sequentially with each cart go through all stations before sending the next one to the loop. The problem seems to be caused by the Elevator. The elevator is supposed to react as real-life elevator where make response to people pressing button and wait. During this time, I added system loggings with Miner and observe it was in a random order proving my Miners were executed in parallel. 

After logging all the information I can, I found it was caused by the elevator not responding to signals, or in other words, the elevator did ¡°respond¡± to the signal when cart reached the surface and ¡°pressed¡± the button, calling the elevator to come up. There is no stage change afterward until a cart finishes the loop and signals the elevator. There are two ways to fix this, one is to add a buffer queue in the waiting area of the elevator, and the other one is to let the elevator check the status regularly and was implemented. 

After trying my best to fix the errors above, the program runs as 
I found that during the early stages of the program, the system acted pretty serially until around the fifth or sixth cart arrived at the mine.  After that, the systems will have a few carts in the loop at the same time. However the maximum carts were hard to fulfill the loop. This may be caused by the Java built-in thread manage system. The system will randomly decide the next to process thread, where a cart may go through all the locations at once.  As Producer generates carts faster than consumption, the loop will eventually fulfilled with carts. This would cause a roundabout problem and make all thread wait and finally shut down the program. To fix this, I added a static count to prevent too many carts and block producers when reach a limit.

To summarize, from this Assignment, I learned the skill of java-multi thread programming, skills to debugging concurrency problems. Deepened my understanding in concurrency problems.
